# Overlapping-Gene-Pattern-Discovery-Schz-BP

The motivation of this research is to identify the overlapping genetic pattern between bipolar disorder and schizophrenia. Mental illness is a major cause of increase in suicide in this decade. The reasons are mostly said to be environmental, genetic and physical factors. Genetic factors has high importance out from the group. According to recent studies conducted by psychiatric field professionals, the association between psychiatric disorders is revealed. They found the some similarity and overlapping pattern among 5 major type of psychiatric disorders namely schizophrenia, major depressive disorder, bipolar disorder, attention deficit hyperactive disorder and autism spectrum disorder (neurodevelopmental). Based on that fact, in this work we identified the genetic link between schizophrenia and bipolar disorder using sophisticated computational models. Seven common overlapping genes are discovered. Overlapping genes reduces the model accuracy (classifying the samples) due to its presence on both the dataset. So identification and elimination of redundant (overlap) genes plays a significant part in improving classification accuracy of the learning model. To identify the genes, we proposed a new algorithm called SIFRA (Signal Induced Feature Reduction Algorithm). This algorithm finds 68 and 75 novel gene biomarkers of bipolar disorder and schizophrenia respectively. Among them, 7 are identified as overlapping genes and are removed from the dataset. The final subset contains the optimal genes is given as input to Deep Neural Network model (Developed using Tensorflow, Python). This entire model is named as RGBIC (Rank Based Gene Identification and Classification). This model achieved best results (97.01% and 95.51%) on bipolar and schizophrenia dataset. This system would be helpful to diagnose patients affected with psychiatric disorders through genetic information. 
